DOCSP-40803: Cursor guide (#30)
mongodb/docs-cpp: source/read/cursor.txt

.. _cpp-cursors:

=========================
Access Data From a Cursor
=========================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: read, results, oplog

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to access data from a **cursor** by using the
{+driver-short+}.

A cursor is a mechanism that returns the results of a read operation in iterable
batches. Because a cursor holds only a subset of documents at any given time,

> cursors reduce both memory consumption and network bandwidth usage.

Reviewer: Q: cursors reduce memory consumption and network bandwidth usage compared to what? A regular read operation?

Author: Compared to returning all the documents at once - I'll clarify that

    :language: cpp
    :dedent:
    :start-after: start-db-coll
    :end-before: end-db-coll

To learn how to create a free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets, see the
:atlas:`Get Started with Atlas </getting-started>` guide.

.. _cpp-cursors-iterate:

Retrieve All Cursor Documents
-----------------------------

To iterate over the contents of a ``mongocxx::cursor`` instance, use a ``for`` loop.

The following example uses the ``find()`` method to retrieve all documents that have a
``name`` value of ``"Dunkin' Donuts"``. It then prints each document from the cursor returned
by the ``find()`` method:

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable:

   .. input:: /includes/read/cursor.cpp
      :start-after: start-cursor-all
      :end-before: end-cursor-all
      :language: cpp
      :dedent:

   .. output::

      { "_id" : { "$oid" : "..." }, ... "name" : "Dunkin' Donuts", "restaurant_id" : "40379573" }
      { "_id" : { "$oid" : "..." }, ... "name" : "Dunkin' Donuts", "restaurant_id" : "40363098" }
      { "_id" : { "$oid" : "..." }, ... "name" : "Dunkin' Donuts", "restaurant_id" : "40395071" }
      ...

Retrieve Documents Individually
-------------------------------

> To retrieve documents from a cursor individually, call the ``begin()`` method on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To retrieve an individual document from a cursor, call the ``begin()`` method on
```

      
Tailable Cursors
----------------

When querying on a :manual:`capped collection </core/capped-collections/>`, you
can use a **tailable cursor** that remains open after the client exhausts the
results in a cursor. To create a tailable cursor, instantiate a ``mongocxx::options::find``
object and set its ``cursor_type`` field to ``mongocxx::cursor::type::k_tailable``. Then,
pass your ``mongocxx::options::find`` instance as an argument to the ``find()`` method.

For example, you can create a capped collection called ``vegetables`` that stores
documents representing vegetables, as shown in the following code:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/read/cursor.cpp
    :language: cpp
    :dedent:
    :start-after: start-capped-coll
    :end-before: end-capped-coll

The following code uses a tailable cursor to retrieve all documents in the ``vegetables``
collection but continues to check the cursor for more documents until it retrieves
three documents:

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable:

   .. input:: /includes/read/cursor.cpp
      :start-after: start-tailable
      :end-before: end-tailable
      :language: cpp
      :dedent:

   .. output::

>       { "_id" : { "$oid" : "..." }, "name" : "cauliflower" }

Reviewer: Q: The copy talks about retrieving three documents, but the output only shows two documents.

Author: Line 137 ("if you insert another document ...") kinda explains that, but let me know if it should be clearer. Basically there are two documents in the collection, so the cursor will retrieve two, but it's a tailable cursor so it stays open even though the original cursor is exhausted. Then if you insert a third document, the cursor will also store that document.

Reviewer: Ah, ok, I see. Maybe edit the "continues to check the cursor" line to be something like:

"keeps the cursor open to check for more documents until it retrieves three documents"
